Membership Handbook - YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles
Programs
Healthy Living
Wellness Resources
Aquatics
View All
Youth Development
Camps
Youth Sports
View All
Social Impact
FeedLA
Volunteer
View All
Locations
Impact
Volunteer
Careers
The Latest
News
Events
Press
Members
Schedules
Login
Member Support
Membership Handbook
Join the Y
Give Now
Programs
Healthy Living
Wellness Resources
Aquatics
View All
Youth Development
Camps
Youth Sports
View All
Social Impact
FeedLA
Volunteer
View All
Locations
Impact
Volunteer
Careers
The Latest
News
Events
Press
Members
Schedules
Login
Member Support
Membership Handbook
Join the Y
Give Now
Membership Handbook
Your Guide to a
Great Y Experience
A quick guide to our shared spaces, expectations, and how we support each other at the Y.
Background
Membership Handbook
Our Membership Handbook was designed to ensure all members, program participants, staff and guests feel safe and welcome at the Y. All parties agree to follow the rules, code of conduct and age requirements outlined below while visiting any YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles center facility or program site. By adhering to these guidelines, together, we are able to maintain an environment reflective of the Y’s core values of caring, honesty, respect and responsibility.
Disability Accommodations
Member Code of Conduct
Membership
Let’s Get Started
Welcome to the YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles (the “Y”). You are now part of a community of individuals joined together by a shared commitment to nurture the potential of youth, promote healthy living and foster a sense of social responsibility.
This Handbook is a great tool to help you get acquainted with our facilities and understand our policies and guidelines. Amenities will vary depending on which facility you are visiting. We encourage you to take some time on your first visit to speak with any one of our helpful staff members to better understand your center’s amenities and any other policies outside of this Handbook.
Commitment to All
The Y is made up of people from all backgrounds working together to strengthen their communities.
Together we work to ensure that everyone, regardless of ability, age, cultural background, disability, ethnicity, faith, gender, gender identity, ideology, immigrant status, income, race, sex or sexual orientation, has the opportunity to reach their full potential.
We share the Core Values of Caring, Honesty, Respect and Responsibility — they guide everything we do.
The Y is committed to providing programs and services that are inclusive and welcoming to all. We value an environment that fosters dignity, respect, fairness and appreciation for all aspects and dimensions of diversity.
To reinforce this commitment, among other things, we support members/participants in having the opportunity to use the locker room and/or restroom they select based on their gender identity.
Disability Accommodations
At the Y, we believe our strength is in the diversity of our staff, volunteers, members and participants. We work proactively and collaboratively every day to build organizational and individual capacity towards providing the most inclusive and welcoming experience for every individual we employ, serve and engage. In that regard, the Y complies with all federal, state and local equal employment opportunity/non-discrimination laws.
Ensuring ADA compliance is the law and inclusion is critical to our strategy and impact. If you, or any of your family members who are participating in a program or an activity, have any type of special medical need (such as, a disability or a medical condition, including life threatening/severe allergies or other medical and/or dietary restrictions) that requires an accommodation, may impact the program experience, or requires additional staff training and/or staff supervision, please inform the Program Director or the center Executive Director prior to your participation in such activity.
In order for some reasonable accommodations to be provided, current documentation from a qualified individual knowledgeable about the disability or medical condition may need to be submitted. After receiving the request for the accommodation, a YMCA staff member will engage in an interactive dialogue with you or the relevant family member to explore potential reasonable accommodations.
Member Code of Conduct
The Y is committed to providing a positive environment that is safe and inclusive to all. We have adopted a Code of Conduct to govern the actions and behaviors of all members, program participants, and guests while in our facilities and while participating in Y programs.
All individuals using any of our facilities are expected to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with the Y’s Core Values of Caring, Honesty, Respect and Responsibility. Failure to do so may result in suspension or termination of membership privileges.
As a member, program participant or guest, you agree to follow our Code of Conduct, which is rooted in our Core Values. By adhering to this Code of Conduct, we will be able to maintain an environment that is reflective of the Y’s Core Values.
The actions listed below are not an all-inclusive list of behaviors considered inappropriate in our facilities and programs. Other behaviors not listed below may, nevertheless, be considered unacceptable and may result in suspension or termination of membership privileges or of program participation.
Sign/check in and registration is required with every visit.
All members and guests will be required to sign the YMCA Assumption of Risk, Release and Waiver of Liability and Indemnity Agreement and have their picture taken with their face visible on their first visit. Membership cards must be presented each time a member enters a facility. Members without a valid membership card may be denied entry. In addition, a government-issued photo ID is required for all Nationwide Members.
Safety.
All members, program participants, and guests are required to follow all posted rules and staff directives.
Appropriate attire must be worn at all times.
Shirts or cover-ups are to be worn over sports bras. Shirts and shoes are to be worn at all times, with the exception of in locker rooms and aquatic areas. However, athletic shoes or closed-toe shoes are required in all healthy living center areas. Shirts and shoes are not required where bathing suits are permitted. No clothing with vulgar language, obscene gestures, racial slurs, or anything that contributes to a hostile environment or would be considered inappropriate in a family environment may be worn.
Cameras and video equipment is prohibited; mobile phone use is limited.
Camera and/or video equipment use is not allowed inside of the facility without express approval from a Y staff member. Phone calls should only be made or taken away from program areas, healthy living centers, pool areas, classrooms, child activity center areas and locker rooms. If you need to make or take a phone call, please do so in authorized areas, speak quietly, and be respectful of other members.
Media and entertainment should be family-friendly and should not disrupt other members.
Music devices should be used with headphones and set at a volume that does not disturb other members or create a safety hazard. Watching videos and movies is allowed as long as they are family-friendly, non-violent, appropriate and do not create a safety hazard.
Threatening physical contact or language is prohibited.
Physical contact with another person in any hostile or threatening manner is not permitted. Hostile or vulgar language, including swearing, name-calling or shouting is also not permitted. Use of social networking websites in a manner that is contrary to the Y’s mission, is detrimental to the community, or is in violation of the law is also prohibited.
Tobacco, smoking, vaping, drug and alcohol use is not permitted.
Using, possessing or being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs, including marijuana or any substance containing THC, cannabis or similar substance (whether not legal under California law) in or outside of Y facilities or programs or on Y property is prohibited at all times. Similarly, smoking or vaping any substance (whether or not legal under California law) in or outside of Y facilities or programs or on Y property is prohibited at all times. Smoking is defined as the act of lighting, smoking or carrying a lighted or smoldering cigar, cigarette or pipe of any kind. “Vaping” refers to the use of electronic nicotine delivery systems or electronic smoking devices, such as e-cigarettes, e-pipes, e-hookahs and e-cigars.
Any demonstration of sexual activity, contact or conduct is prohibited.
Theft/destruction of property.
Theft or behavior that results in the destruction of property is prohibited.
Loitering is not permitted inside or outside of Y facilities or programs.
The Y limits solicitations, surveys, petitions, distributions and conducting non-Y business on its premises. Individuals who are not employed or authorized by the Y may not solicit or distribute literature on Y property at any time for any purpose nor may they use the Y’s facilities or premises to conduct their own personal business.
Weapons are prohibited.
Bringing dangerous or unauthorized materials, such as explosives, firearms, knives or other sharp objects, weapons, guns, hazardous materials or other similar items into a Y facility or onto Y property is strictly prohibited. This includes items kept inside the real, visible, or perceived possession of your vehicle.
Certain criminal convictions may result in immediate termination of Y membership.
The protection of our members, program participants and guests participating in our programs and/or using our facilities is of the utmost importance to the Y. The Y conducts regular sex offender screenings on all its members, program participants, and guests. If a sex offender match occurs, the Y reserves the right to cancel membership, end program participation, and remove visitation access.
If a member, program participant or guest feels uncomfortable due to behavior displayed by an individual that is in violation of the Code of Conduct, please report the behavior to a Y staff member.
The Y is committed to creating and maintaining a space that embodies our Core Values.
Suspension or termination of membership
may result from a violation of this Code of Conduct by you or your family members and/or invited guest(s). While an incident is being investigated, the membership of the person(s) accused of violating the Member Code of Conduct may be temporarily suspended pending a final decision.
The Y reserves the right to make situational decisions
based on the nature and severity of the incident and/or consistent with its mission and values.
Membership
Membership Categories and Definitions
Family
– One to two adults (age eighteen (18) and older) and unlimited youth (seventeen (17) and younger) who are under the
legal guardianship
of the adults in the same household. Additional adults may be added at an additional cost. All members on a family membership must reside at the same address; proof of residency may be requested.
Adult
– One adult, age thirty (30) and older.
Young Adult
– One young adult, between the ages of eighteen (18) and twenty-nine (29). Memberships will automatically be updated to Adult the month of the member’s 30th birthday.
Teen
– One teen, between the ages of twelve (12) and seventeen (17). Memberships will automatically be updated to Young Adult the month of the member’s 18th birthday.
**
The Judicial Branch of California defines legal guardianship as a court order that states that someone who is not a child’s parent is responsible for taking care of the child.
Membership Promotions
Offers are valid for a limited time only. Each offer may vary. New member promotions are for new and former members in good standing. Offers are not applicable to previous purchases and are not valid on any previously held memberships within the last 90 days. In order to qualify for discounts and promotions, an active membership must be maintained. If an active membership is not maintained, a fee of up to the full Non-Member fee will be charged automatically. Amenities, programs, and monthly membership dues vary by location.
Guests
Guests are always welcome at the Y! Guests accompanied by members may use the facility a maximum of one time per twelve (12) months at no cost and $25 per visit thereafter. An adult member may bring a maximum of two (2) guests per day.
To ensure the security of our members, program participants and guests, we require a (government-issued) photo ID. All guests ages eighteen (18) and older are required to provide a photo ID, sign the Assumption of Risk Release and Waiver of Liability and Indemnity Agreement, and must have their picture taken at the time of their first visit. Any guest under eighteen (18) years of age must have an Assumption of Risk Release and Waiver of Liability and Indemnity Agreement signed by his or her legal parent or guardian. Youth guests age twelve (12) and under must be accompanied by an adult (age eighteen (18) and older) at all times while the youth is in the facility. Any member who signs in a guest is fully responsible for the guest and his or her guest’s actions while on all Y premises.
Caregivers
Members who require assistance are encouraged to bring their own caregiver. Caregivers may be asked to sign an Assumption of Risk, Release and Waiver of Liability and will be registered in our system for facility access for 30 days, renewable at the Welcome Center.
Caregivers may only enter with the member they are assisting and are welcome to accompany them in the water or group exercise classes for support purposes only. Caregivers should not actively swim or participate in classes themselves.
For pool activities, caregivers must also make a reservation through the LA Y app. Caregivers wishing to use the facility for personal use must hold a valid membership.
Nannies
Nannies are able to bring children to land classes or swimming lessons, but are unable to participate in open swim, parent-child swimming lessons or the Child Activity Center without being added onto the family membership (must show proof of living in the household, extra fee may apply). The nanny will be required to sign the Assumption of Risk Release and Waiver of Liability and Indemnity Agreement at the time of each visit and may only enter with a member. Nannies who wish to use the facility for their own personal use must have a valid membership.
Nationwide Membership
At the Y, we believe that positive, lasting, personal and social change can come about only when we all work together to invest in our kids, our health, and our neighbors. This strengthening of community—and the realization of a Y’s full potential—has the most impact when all Ys are open to all Y members and provide safe and welcoming environments for everyone.
With Nationwide Membership, members can visit any participating Y in the United States and Puerto Rico through membership at their home Y, at no additional cost. Nationwide Membership is an essential part of our cause to strengthen communities. It enables members to:
reach their health and wellness goals wherever they live, work, or travel; and
connect with the larger Y community in meaningful ways.
The goal of Nationwide Membership is to ensure that all nationwide members have access to, and can use, all the areas and programs of any Y they visit.
By making it possible for members to use the Y as often as they like, Nationwide Membership increases the value of Y membership. By promoting access for all, the initiative Y members the opportunity to be part of a single Movement and deepens the impact of the Y cause.
Nationwide members may visit other participating Ys as often as they like, as long as they use their home Ys, on average, at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the time. If nationwide members have a family membership or some other inclusive membership arrangement and regularly use two Ys with the same frequency, they need to belong to the Y that is used the most frequently by the family. If use is higher at a center other than your home Y, you will be notified by a letter prior to your membership being transferred. Membership fee may increase/decrease depending on the new home center membership rates. Members wishing to end their membership must do so at their home Y.
Please bring a government-issued photo ID and your YMCA membership card when visiting another Y.
30-Day Money Back Membership Policy
We’re confident you’ll love being part of the Y—but if you change your mind, we’ve got you covered. New members are eligible for a full refund of membership dues if cancellation occurs within the first 30 days of joining. This courtesy is available as a one-time offer and cannot be redeemed more than once.
Please note: If your membership status affects eligibility for program enrollment or discounts, those benefits may be revoked or adjusted upon cancellation. For more information, visit your local Welcome Center or email us at
[email protected]
.
Cancellation
The Y requires written notice (including e-mail) before your next payment draft date to cancel a current Y membership. Members may also submit a request to cancel a current Y membership online here. Effective January 1, 2018, all cancellations require 30 days advance written notice before your next draft date to process. Memberships established prior to January of 2018, require 15 days advance written notice before your next draft date to process. Members have 30 days to rejoin without being assessed a standard joining fee.
Membership Hold
Your Y membership may be placed on hold for one (1) to three (3) months in a calendar year. All holds require fifteen (15) days advance written notice before your next draft date to process the months for which you wish the hold to be in effect. Upon expiration of the hold period, your membership and membership fees will be reinstated automatically.
Change of Information
Any changes to your current membership information, such as address, bank information, adding or deleting members, or changing your membership type, require 30 days advance written notice before your next draft date. If you draft from a debit or credit card, please remember to visit the Member Services Desk to update your card information as needed.
Transferring your Membership to another Y
Please see the Member Services Desk at any Y location if you wish to transfer your membership from one center to another within the YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles Association. If you are transferring to a Y outside of the YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles, we will be happy to provide you with a letter of transfer. This letter may allow your joining fee to be waived at many Ys across the nation. Please remember to cancel your membership with the YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles before transferring to a Y outside of the YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles.
Payment and Return
Members can draft their membership fees monthly from a checking account, savings account, debit or credit card. Should your draft be returned to us for any reason, you are responsible for that draft payment, plus a $10 service charge, in addition to any fees your bank may charge. If fees are not collected, your membership will automatically be cancelled. Once you return to reinstate your membership or purchase a new membership, your outstanding balance will need to be paid before reinstatement can occur.
Facility Rules and Age Requirements
Ages eleven (11) and under: Youth must be participating in a Y program or activity and supervised by an adult (age 18 and older) at all times while the youth is in the facility.
Ages twelve (12) to seventeen (17): Youth must be participating in a Y program or activity and is limited to two (2) hours of unscheduled activity without an accompanying adult (age 18 and older) present in the facility.
Ages (18) and over: full access to all programs, activities and facilities included in membership.
Before engaging in any physical activity program, members are advised to consult with their physician.
Healthy Living Center
Healthy Living Center Rules
Only Y staff are allowed to provide personal fitness instruction.
Wipe off equipment after each use with Y-supplied cleaning products.
Ask a staff member for assistance when using unfamiliar equipment or when beginning a new exercise program.
Wear appropriate athletic attire and closed toe shoes at all times. Shirts or cover ups are to be worn over sports bras.
Limit your time on all cardiovascular equipment to thirty (30) minutes when others are waiting.
Allow others to take turns (work in) while using strength equipment.
For the safety of all members, please keep your bag in a designated area or locked locker.
Keep your valuables in a locked locker.
Stay hydrated with a beverage in a spill-proof, unbreakable container.
As a courtesy to others, return all equipment to its proper storage area.
Healthy Living Center Minimum Age Requirements
Ages ten (10) to eleven (11):
Youth this age are required to complete the Y Fitness and Safety Orientation with a staff member prior to using any fitness equipment. After completion of the orientation, close supervision by an adult (18 years and older) is required.
Ages twelve (12) to fifteen (15):
Youth this age are required to complete the Fitness and Safety Orientation (and exam, if applicable) with a staff member prior to using cardio equipment and weight machines. An accompanying adult is encouraged to participate.
Ages sixteen (16) and older:
Youth this age may use the free weight room without an adult present.
Exception:
All youth must meet equipment manufacturer minimum age and height guidelines.
Free Weight Rules
Only Y staff members are allowed to provide personal fitness instruction.
Free weight use is restricted to those ages sixteen (16) and older.
Wipe off equipment after use with Y-supplied cleaning products.
Use precautions when lifting free weights.
Ask a staff member for assistance when using unfamiliar equipment or beginning a new exercise program.
Use collars to secure weights from sliding off of bars.
Set weights down gently.
As a courtesy to others, return all equipment to its proper storage area.
Wear appropriate athletic attire and closed toe shoes at all times. Shirts or cover ups are to be worn over sports bras.
Allow others to take turns (work in) while using strength equipment.
For the safety of all members, please keep your bag in a designated area or locked locker.
Keep your valuables in a locked locker.
Stay hydrated with a beverage in a spill-proof, unbreakable container.
Group Exercise Classes
Group Exercise Class Rules
Please keep talking to a minimum and refrain from using headphones while participating in a class.
Please arrive early or on time for all group exercise classes. Late arrivals may not be allowed to participate.
Use of cell phones, including texting, is not permitted.
Wear appropriate athletic attire and closed toe shoes at all times. Shirts or cover ups are to be worn over sports bras.
For the safety of all members, please keep your bag in a designated area or locked locker.
If leaving class early, please exit the class in a manner that does not disturb the rest of the class.
All classes are subject to change. Please see the Member Services desk for the most current class schedule.
Some classes may require participants to sign up in advance. Please check the schedule to identify which classes require a reservation.
YMCA members and guests are prohibited from organizing, arranging, leading or supporting any type of group exercise class or training, including, but not limited to, small group training classes. All Group Exercise classes must be organized, sponsored and taught by a YMCA employee at a YMCA- approved work site during the employee’s regularly scheduled work hours.
Group Exercise Class Minimum Age Requirements
While most classes accommodate participants as young as 12 years of age, there may be age requirements for certain equipment used in classes, Please contact your Y for class minimum age requirements.
Personal Training
Personal training by individuals not employed by the Y is prohibited.
All Personal Training sessions must be paid for at the Member Services Desk, through a Membership Associate. No exceptions. Advance payment is required for all sessions and packages.
Services exchanged in lieu of monetary payment and/or direct payment to the Personal Trainer Is not permitted and may result in termination of membership privileges.
Personal Training sessions are non-refundable/non-transferable and must be used within six (6) months of the purchase date.
All Personal Training sessions must not exceed the time allotted for the session purchased. Both the Trainee and the Personal Trainer must sign session cards after each session indicating the date and time of the session used.
Session cancellations must be made directly with, and confirmed by, the Trainer, and done so at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the session start time. Members will be charged for sessions for cancellations with less than twenty-four (24) hours’ notice.
Aquatics
Pool Rules
Swimmers must wear appropriate swimwear at all times (this includes modest swim attire for religious or personal beliefs). Gym shorts, cutoffs, cotton material, ripped suits, and revealing swimwear are not considered appropriate swimwear and, thus, prohibited.
Walk at all times on the pool deck. Running is not permitted.
Do not enter the pool if you suspect that have a communicable disease or open wound, cut or blister.
Only U.S. Coast Guard approved life jackets may be used. No inflatable flotation devices will be allowed. This includes water wings, tubes, rafts, etc.
Do not rest on lap lanes and lifelines; only use them if you need temporary support.
Breath holding and prolonged underwater swimming is prohibited.
Anyone requiring a diaper should wear a swim diaper and rubberized pants/swimsuit in and around the water at all times.
Chewing gum, eating and drinking in the pool are prohibited. Glass containers are not allowed in the pool area. Water in a spill-proof, non-breakable container is allowed.
Pushing, dunking, excessive splashing, and all other rough play are prohibited.
Playing on, climbing on, or swimming through the railing or stairs is prohibited.
If the Lifeguard blows her or his whistle, stop, look and listen for instruction.
All members are to shower with soap before entering the pool.
Lap lanes are for lap swimming; walking in lap lanes is only permitted if there are no swimmers.
For the safety of all patrons, follow all Lifeguard instruction. Lifeguards have the right to remove any person from the pool area if the individual is acting in an unsafe manner or creating an unsafe or a dangerous situation for themselves or others.
Swimming instruction by individuals not employed by the Y is prohibited.
Please contact your Y for additional rules/age requirements.
Aquatics Age Requirements
Zero (0) to Seven (7) years old:
Youth this age must be supervised by an adult (age eighteen (18) or older) who is in the water and within arms’ reach of the youth at all times. One adult per maximum of two (2) youth age seven (7) and under.
Eight (8) to Eleven (11) years old:
Youth this age must be supervised by an adult (age eighteen (18) or older) who is in the designated observation area at all times.
Twelve (12) years of age and up:
Youth this age may be in the pool without an adult present.
Spa Rules
Members must wear appropriate swimwear at all times (this includes modest swim attire for religious or personal beliefs). Gym shorts, cutoffs, ripped suits, and revealing swimwear are not considered appropriate swimwear and, thus, prohibited.
Do not enter the pool if you suspect that have a communicable disease or open wound, cut or blister.
Individuals with weakened immune systems and those suffering from heart disease, diabetes, or high or low blood pressure must consult with their physician before using the spa.
The use of the spa while under the influence of alcohol, marijuana, anticoagulants, antihistamines, vasoconstrictors, stimulants, hypnotics, narcotics or tranquilizers must be avoided.
For the safety and enjoyment of all, the use of health and beauty products (oils, gels, lotions, masks, hair dyes, etc.) is not allowed.
Pregnant women should not use the spa pool without first consulting their physician.
Individuals may spend no more than fifteen (15) minutes in the spa during any one (1) session per day. Long term exposure may result in nausea, dizziness or fainting.
The maximum temperature allowed by the Los Angeles County Department of Health and Environmental Control for any spa is 104 degrees Fahrenheit.
The spa is for ages fourteen (14) and older. Youth under the age of fourteen (14) are not permitted.
All members must shower with soap before entering the spa.
Sauna and Steam Room Rules
Individuals with a history of health problems must consult with a physician before using the sauna or steam room.
We ask that all members shower with soap before entering the sauna or steam and after using the sauna or steam and before entering the pool.
For the safety and enjoyment of all, the use of health and beauty products (oils, gels, lotions, masks, hair dyes, etc.) is not allowed.
No newspapers, magazines, books or other paper products are permitted in the sauna or steam room.
A towel or swim suit must be worn at all times when using the sauna and steam area.
Shoes and clothes, including neoprene or plastic “sweat suits”, are not permitted.
Allow a five (5) minute cool down period after exercise prior to entering the sauna or steam room.
Individuals may spend no more than ten (10) minutes in the sauna and steam room during any one (1) session per day.
Youth under 11 years of age and under are not allowed to use the sauna or steam. Youth 12 and older must be accompanied by an adult.
Avoid dehydration and drink plenty of water before entering and after exiting the sauna or steam room.
Gymnasium
Youth under the age of twelve (12) must be accompanied by an adult at all times.
Wear appropriate athletic attire and closed toe/non-marking athletic shoes at all times. Shirts must be worn at all times and cover ups are to be worn over sports bras.
Chewing gum, food and drink are prohibited. Water in a spill-proof, non-breakable container is allowed.
Y basketballs may be available for check-out at the Member Services Desk, Please return borrowed equipment when finished playing.
Basketballs should not be kicked or thrown at others or walls.
Please be courteous to others.
Rough play, fighting and for profanity is prohibited and may lead to a loss of membership privileges.
No dunking or hanging on rims or nets.
Full court pick-up games may only take place during designated times or if two (2) or more courts are available for play. The Y has the right to discontinue a pick-up game at any time.
Child Activity Centers
One of the most valuable services the Y provides is a FREE Child Activity Center for those who hold Family Memberships, Child Activity Centers are generally for children ages six (5) weeks to 11 years old. Ages may vary, please contact the center you would like to visit for specific age requirements and other details. The Child Activity Center is limited to two (2) hours per day.
Parents are required to remain in the facility at all times when they have a child in the Child Activity Center.
Child Activity Center Rules
Babies should arrive fed and with a clean diaper.
Label each of your child’s items with the child’s full name.
Communicate with staff regarding your child’s individual needs.
Assist in protecting your child by following your center’s sign-in/out policies.
Adhere to the two (2) hour time limit per day for Child Activity Center services. Youth 12 months and younger may be limited to a shorter stay in the Child Activity Center.
For the safety of youth in our care, please do not enter the Child Activity Center area without permission from Y staff members.
No outside toys, food or electronics [Kindle, iPad, phones, etc.) are allowed in the Child Activity Center.
Drinks in a spill proof cup are allowed. (Certain exceptions may apply.)
Our Child Activity Center staff members do not change diapers. If a diaper change is required, a parent will be located to assist.
If a child who is attending the Child Activity Center becomes upset, staff will try holding, soothing and entertaining the upset child. If the staff members are unable to soothe an upset child after ten {10) minutes, a staff member will contact the parent to sign the child out of the Child Activity Center for the day.
Locker Rooms
Many of our facilities have locker rooms for changing, showering and storing your items while you are at the Y. Except at those facilities that offer locker rental, all of our locker rooms are for day use only. Please do not leave your belongings in the day use lockers overnight as they will be removed at the end of each day. Locks are not provided. It is recommended that a strong lock be used at all times to secure personal items.
Locker Room Rules
Locker room rules vary by center. For the safety of all, members are expected to abide by the rules set in place at each LA Y location. Click
here
to view locker room rules by center.
Personal Valuables
Unfortunately, not everyone lives up to the Y’s Core Values of Caring, Honesty, Respect, and Responsibility. Do not leave valuables visible in your car! Most centers provide security lockers. The Y provides free day use lockers and we recommend the use of a sturdy lock to secure your personal belongings. The Y is not responsible for lost, damaged or stolen property.
Service Animals
With the exception of service animals, animals are not permitted on Y property or in Y facilities or programs and may not be left unattended on Y property.
Financial Aids
Participants with a financial need are encouraged to apply for financial assistance for any portion of the membership/program fee. The Y uses a sliding scale to evaluate each applicant on an individual basis. Let us know your need, and we will work to help you. At the Y, we never turn anyone away because of an inability to pay.
Corporate Memberships
The Y partners with many businesses to offer a corporate membership rate, please see the Member Services Desk for more information.
Military Memberships
We thank you for your service and are happy to help meet the critical needs facing families of our military service members. Please speak to a Member Services staff member to find out what assistance we provide.
Member Referrals
Each new member you refer gets you 33% off your monthly membership dues for 90 days. To qualify, your referral must remain a member the full 90 days and you must register the referral at our Welcome Center within 30 days of their enrollment. There is no limit to the number of referrals. Please note: Corporate 3rd party and specialty memberships do not qualify.
Volunteers
There are many ways to volunteer your time at the Y. No matter what your special talents or interests are, you can make a difference in someone else’s life and get involved with your community by volunteering at the Y. Please see the Member Services Desk for more information on how to volunteer.
Data Security/Privacy Statement
The Y is concerned about the privacy of its members and employees and maintains their personal information in confidence. The Y shares member and employee information with financial institutions, government agencies, and companies working on behalf of the Y only as needed to conduct Y business.
Other than as required by law or to conduct Y business, the Y will not share your personal information with other third parties without your explicit permission. The Y will not sell, rent or lease your personal information to others. You may inspect your records and update your personal information at any time.
Please notify the Executive Director of your Y center or the Human Resources Department in the Metropolitan corporate office with regard to any concerns you may have about the privacy of your Y records. For more details see our full
Privacy Policy
posted on www.ymcaLA.org.
Official Partners
Footer Navigation
Join the Community
Subscribe
Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Who We Are
Our Impact
Contact Us
The Latest
Our Programs
Healthy Living
Youth Development
Social Impact
Get Involved
Donate
Volunteer
Partnerships
Careers
Become a Member
Locations
Schedules
Member Support
Go
Copyright Information
©
YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Join the Community
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
First Name
(Required)
Last Name
(Required)
Email
(Required)
Zip
Age Group
Select an Age Group
18-24
24-35
35-44
44-64
65+
Center
Select a Center
Anderson Munger Family YMCA
Ann & Steve Hinchliffe San Pedro & Peninsula YMCA
Antelope Valley Family YMCA
Burbank YMCA
Collins & Katz Family YMCA
Crenshaw Family YMCA
Crowell Family YMCA (Formerly South Pasadena San Marino YMCA)
Culver-Palms Family YMCA
East Valley Family YMCA
Gardena-Carson Family YMCA
Hollywood YMCA
Ketchum-Downtown YMCA
Kolar Family YMCA (Formerly Downey Family YMCA)
Koreatown YMCA Center for Community Well-Being
Mid Valley Family YMCA
Montebello-Commerce YMCA
North Valley Family YMCA
Palisades-Malibu YMCA
Pasadena-Sierra Madre YMCA
Santa Anita Family YMCA
Santa Clarita Family YMCA
Southeast-Rio Vista YMCA
Torrance-South Bay YMCA
Weingart East Los Angeles YMCA
Weingart YMCA Wellness & Aquatic Center
West Valley Family YMCA
Westchester Family YMCA
Wilmington YMCA
Interested In
Membership
Volunteering
Swim
Youth Sports
Camp
Other
Other
Δ
CLOSE
×
People Team Holiday Support
From December 22, 2025 through January 2, 2026, the People Team will continue to provide support each business day on a reduced schedule. While response times may be slightly longer than usual, coverage will be in place to support urgent needs.  Please
click here
for the People Team holiday schedule.
×
English
Spanish
Armenian
Korean